Public Health Image Library (PHIL)   Photographs, Illustrations, Multimedia Files
spacer
Skip Nav 	spacer
Back to results
11159
PHIL Image 11159

ID#:	11159
Description:	Under a very high magnification of 50,000x, this scanning electron micrograph (SEM) shows a strain of Staphylococcus aureus bacteria taken from a vancomycin intermediate resistant culture (VISA).

Under SEM, one can not tell the difference between bacteria that are susceptible, or multidrug resistant, but with transmission electron microscopy (TEM), VISA isolates exhibit a thickening in the cell wall that may attribute to their reduced susceptibility to vancomycin . See PHIL 11158 for a black and white version of this image. VISA and VRSA are specific types of antimicrobial-resistant staph bacteria. While most staph bacteria are susceptible to the antimicrobial agent vancomycin some have developed resistance. VISA and VRSA cannot be successfully treated with vancomycin because these organisms are no longer susceptibile to vancomycin. However, to date, all VISA and VRSA isolates have been susceptible to other Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved drugs.

How do VISA and VRSA get their names?

Staph bacteria are classified as VISA or VRSA based on laboratory tests. Laboratories perform tests to determine if staph bacteria are resistant to antimicrobial agents that might be used for treatment of infections. For vancomycin and other antimicrobial agents, laboratories determine how much of the agent it requires to inhibit the growth of the organism in a test tube. The result of the test is usually expressed as a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) or the minimum amount of antimicrobial agent that inhibits bacterial growth in the test tube. Therefore, staph bacteria are classified as VISA if the MIC for vancomycin is 4-8µg/ml, and classified as VRSA if the vancomycin MIC is >16µg/ml.
High Resolution:	Right click here and select "Save Target As..." for hi-resolution image (4.69 MB)
Content Providers(s):	CDC/ Matthew J. Arduino, DRPH
Creation Date:	2001
Photo Credit:	Janice Haney Carr
Links:	
#
	CDC - National Center for Preparedness, Detection, and Control of Infectious Diseases; Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP); Frequently Asked Questions: About VISA/VRSA
Categories: 	
CDC Organization

MeSH
tree picture 	Analytical, Diagnostic and Therapeutic Techniques and Equipment
tree picture 	tree picture 	Diagnosis
tree picture 	tree picture 	Equipment and Supplies
tree picture	tree picture 	tree picture 	Diagnostic Equipment
tree picture 	Diseases
tree picture 	tree picture 	Bacterial Infections and Mycoses
tree picture	tree picture 	tree picture 	Bacterial Infections
tree picture	tree picture	tree picture 	tree picture 	Gram-Positive Bacterial Infections
tree picture	tree picture	tree picture	tree picture 	tree picture 	Staphylococcal Infections
tree picture 	Organisms
tree picture 	tree picture 	Bacteria
tree picture	tree picture 	tree picture 	Gram-Positive Bacteria
tree picture	tree picture	tree picture 	tree picture 	Gram-Positive Cocci
tree picture	tree picture	tree picture	tree picture 	tree picture 	Staphylococcaceae
tree picture	tree picture	tree picture	tree picture	tree picture 	tree picture 	Staphylococcus
tree picture	tree picture	tree picture	tree picture	tree picture	tree picture 	tree picture 	Staphylococcus aureus
Copyright Restrictions:	None - This image is in the public domain and thus free of any copyright restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider be credited and notified in any public or private usage of this image.
